---
layout: page
title: Research
---
# Publications
Qin, S., Cai, M., Fuller, S., & Qian, Y. (2022). Gender, Parenthood, and Employment During COVID-19: An Immigrant-Native Born Comparison in Canada. _Canadian Ethnic Studies 54_(3), 63-108. doi:10.1353/ces.2022.0025.

**Abstract**: The COVID-19 pandemic has upended how we live and work. In Canada, the gender gap in employment among parents with young children widened substantially during the pandemic. Previous studies, however, examine parents in Canada without distinguishing them by immigrant status, although immigrant versus Canadian-born parents may have distinct work-family experiences. In this study, we investigate how the intersection of parental and immigrant statuses influenced change in gender employment gaps during the pandemic. Drawing on Labor Force Survey (LFS) microdata from March 2019 to February 2021, we examine the probability of employment by gender, parental status, and immigrant status. When comparing the school closure period (March to August 2020) relative to the same months in 2019 (pre-pandemic), immigrant women, irrespective of parental status, witnessed larger declines in employment than their male counterparts and non-immigrants, and the gender gap widened the most among recent immigrants with school-aged children. When schools gradually reopened (September 2020 to February 2021), employment recovered faster for recent than established immigrant mothers. Overall, our findings show that among parents of young children, the growing gender gap in employment during the pandemic was concentrated among immigrants, with immigrant mothers disproportionately disadvantaged. This study illuminates how the pandemic exacerbated intersectional inequalities based on gender, parenthood, and immigrant status.

We used STATA 16 to analyze the data. To obtain a copy of our code for replication purposes, please contact me directly. 

[download pdf](https://rqinsq.github.io/assets/qin et al_2022_gender, parenthood, and employment during covid-19.pdf)

# Working papers
Confiding in Strangers: Trust and Mental Health Service Use in China

**Abstract**: Research on trust has formed a dichotomous conceptualization of trust as established through either rational calculation or emotional intimacy, neglecting other possibilities. Drawing on Simmel’s theorization of the Stranger and Zelizer’s relational perspective, I argue that “stranger trust” is a third type of trust that frames the trusted person as a Simmelian stranger through interactional negotiations. Using interview data with mental health service consumers in China, I address the question: how do participants of therapeutic relationships form trust under the unfavorable institutional environments for mental health services in China? My findings show that participants in therapeutic relationships create trust by framing the service provider as a “Stranger”, which is established through three interactional processes 1) socially locating the service provider through affinities and differences, 2) protecting social distance, and 3) depersonalizing emotions. From the client’s perspective, these interactional processes mitigate the risk posed by a lack of institutional regulation for mental health service provision. This study calls attention to how relational practices create and maintain trust in settings with weak institutional support for trust.

# Project in progress
Institutional logics, organizational structure, and professional work in the Chinese psychotherapeutic services market

**Abstract:** While psychotherapy is one of the most powerful institutions in modern societies, investigation into the organizational basis of psychotherapy has been rare. Much less attention is paid to psychotherapeutic organizations and practice in non-Western contexts. Due to the unique historical and political context in which it is embedded, the commercial psychotherapeutic industry in China is not only rapidly expanding but also structured in systematically different ways from the West. Drawing on sociological theories of institutions and organizations, this study addresses the questions of (1) What are the organizational structures of commercial psychotherapeutic organizations in China? How do they reflect the institutional logics at work in the psychotherapeutic industry of China as a whole? (2) How do institutional and organizational structures constrain and enable the opportunities, preferences, and activities of individual psychotherapists? A combination of in-depth interviewing, participant observation, and shadowing will be used. By connecting inter-organizational relations, intra-organizational structures, and situated actions and interactions of psychotherapeutic workers, this study hopes to bring new perspectives into the sociology of psychotherapy and shed light on forces and factors that shape mental health care delivery.

[more info about the project](https://rqinsq.github.io/assets/Interview Consent CN_qin.pdf)